Notes.md, before:

# How to setup professional backend project for production

## Setps to follow

### 1. Check node version ✅

### 2. Check npm version ✅

### 3. Create package.json file ✅

### 4. Enter all basic details for package.json file ✅

### 5. Create readme.md file ✅

### 6. Add git repository ✅

1. git init
2. git branch
3. git add .
4. git status
5. git commit -m "your_message here"
6. git push
7. git

### 7. Create new folder public ✅

1. Create temp folder
2. Add .gitkeep file here

### 8. Create .gitignore file to keep ✅

1. Use gitigore file generator
2. It store all imp files to make publically available
3. https://mrkandreev.name/snippets/gitignore-generator

### 9. Create .env file to store all imp creadentials ✅

### 10. Create src folder ✅

### 11. Create files under src ✅

1. app.js
2. index.js
3. constants.js

### 12. create all below folder ✅

1. DB
2. controllers
3. middlewares
4. models
5. routes
6. utils

### 13. Now edit package.json file ✅

1. Add **type** above **main** in **package.json** file

   ```json
     "type":"module"
   ```

### 14. Add nodemon ✅

1. Install nodemon
2. It will run our app app continuously
3. It will added as dev dependency
4. There is another way to that such as --watch check for this

### 15. Add new script to start our server / app ✅

1. "dev":"nodemon src/index.js"

### 16. Add prettier usin npm

1. **.prettierrc**

   ```json
   {
     "singleQuote": false,
     "bracketSpacing": true,
     "tabWidth": 2,
     "semi": true,
     "trailingComma": "es5"
   }
   ```

2. **.prettierignore**

   ```cmd
       *.env
       .env
       .env.*
       /.vscode
       /node_modules
       ./dist
   ```

### 17. Add mongoose for database connection

### 18. Add express for server

### 19. Add dotenv for envoirment variables

### 20. Add mongodb_connection key from mongodb online

### 21. Add db name inside constants.js file ✅

### 22. Add env variable inside .env file ✅

1. PORT
2. MONGODB_CONNECTION

### 23. Check databsae is connected ✅

### 24. Now Edit app.js

1. Add express code
2. Export app.js
3. import app.js to index.js
4. setup server inside connectDb().then().catch()

### 25. Now run and check server is live

### 26. Add CORS and cookie-parser

1.Cors and cookiParser used this way

```javascript
app.use(
  cors({
    origin: process.env.CORS_ORIGIN,
    credentials: true,
  })
);

//THis is configuration for json data
app.use(express.json({ limit: "16kb" }));
//THis is configuration for url data
app.use(express.urlencoded({ extended: true, limit: "16kb" }));
//THis is configuration for public data files
app.use(express.static("public"));
//This is configuration for url data
app.use(cookieParser());
```

### 27. Now create asyncHandler fun under utils folder 📂 to handle request response next

```javascript
const asyncHandler = (requestHandler) => {
  (req, res, next) => {
    Promise.resolve(requestHandler(req, res, next)).catch((err) => next(err));
  };
};

export { asyncHandler };
```

### 28. Handle API error under utils folder 📂

### 29. Instal npm i mongoose-aggregate-paginate-v2 to handle aggregation pipeline

This pkg gives us power to install plugin in our mongoose

### 30. Install Bcrypt => to hash password

1. Bcrypt => core bcrypt => we install this
2. Bcrypt js

### 31. Install JWT => Json web token

### 32. Install JWT => Json web token

### 33. Install JWT => Json web token

## Packages to install

## 1. node version check

```cmd
node -v
```

### 2. npm version check

```cmd
npm -v
```

### 3. Create package.json

```cmd
npm init
```

### 4. Initialize git repo

```cmd
init git
```

### 5. Install nodemon

```cmd
npm i -D nodemon
```

### 6. Install prettier

```cmd
npm i -D prettier
```

### 7. Install mongoose for database connection

```cmd
npm i mongoose
```

### 8. Install express

```cmd
npm i express
```

### 9. Install dotenv

```cmd
npm i dotenv
```

### 10. Install cookie-parser

```cmd
npm i cookie-parser
```

### 11. Install CORS

```cmd
npm i cors
```

### 12. Install cookie-parser

```cmd
npm i cookie-parser
```

### 13. Install mongoose aggregation

```cmd
npm i mongoose-aggregate-paginate-v2
```

### 14. Install Bcrypt

```cmd
npm i bcrypt
```

### 15. Install JWT

```cmd
npm i jsonwebtoken
```

### To check all packages version

Use this command

```cmd
npm list packagename
```

```cmd
npm list mongoose
```

#### Prettier file generator

[.prettierrc file generator](https://michelelarson.com/prettier-config/)
[Visually prettier file generator](https://prettier.io/playground/)

```json
{
  "singleQuote": false,
  "bracketSpacing": true,
  "tabWidth": 2,
  "semi": true,
  "trailingComma": "es5"
}
```

In javascript, markdown, html, css, jsx files use default comment and then state prettier-ignore for keeping prettier away from formating. Such as-

```comment
//prettier-ignore
```

#### .prettierignore file

```json
*.env
.env
.env*

/.vscode
/node_modules
./dist
```

#### .gitignore file generator

[Visually .gitignore file generator](https://mrkandreev.name/snippets/gitignore-generator/)

Commit message:

added cloudinary, multer, to upload file

Notes.md, after:

# How to setup professional backend project for production

## Setps to follow

### 1. Check node version ✅

### 2. Check npm version ✅

### 3. Create package.json file ✅

### 4. Enter all basic details for package.json file ✅

### 5. Create readme.md file ✅

### 6. Add git repository ✅

1. git init
2. git branch
3. git add .
4. git status
5. git commit -m "your_message here"
6. git push
7. git

### 7. Create new folder public ✅

1. Create temp folder
2. Add .gitkeep file here

### 8. Create .gitignore file to keep ✅

1. Use gitigore file generator
2. It store all imp files to make publically available
3. https://mrkandreev.name/snippets/gitignore-generator

### 9. Create .env file to store all imp creadentials ✅

### 10. Create src folder ✅

### 11. Create files under src ✅

1. app.js
2. index.js
3. constants.js

### 12. create all below folder ✅

1. DB
2. controllers
3. middlewares
4. models
5. routes
6. utils

### 13. Now edit package.json file ✅

1. Add **type** above **main** in **package.json** file

   ```json
     "type":"module"
   ```

### 14. Add nodemon ✅

1. Install nodemon
2. It will run our app app continuously
3. It will added as dev dependency
4. There is another way to that such as --watch check for this

### 15. Add new script to start our server / app ✅

1. "dev":"nodemon src/index.js"

### 16. Add prettier usin npm

1. **.prettierrc**

   ```json
   {
     "singleQuote": false,
     "bracketSpacing": true,
     "tabWidth": 2,
     "semi": true,
     "trailingComma": "es5"
   }
   ```

2. **.prettierignore**

   ```cmd
       *.env
       .env
       .env.*
       /.vscode
       /node_modules
       ./dist
   ```

### 17. Add mongoose for database connection

### 18. Add express for server

### 19. Add dotenv for envoirment variables

### 20. Add mongodb_connection key from mongodb online

### 21. Add db name inside constants.js file ✅

### 22. Add env variable inside .env file ✅

1. PORT
2. MONGODB_CONNECTION

### 23. Check databsae is connected ✅

### 24. Now Edit app.js

1. Add express code
2. Export app.js
3. import app.js to index.js
4. setup server inside connectDb().then().catch()

### 25. Now run and check server is live

### 26. Add CORS and cookie-parser

1.Cors and cookiParser used this way

```javascript
app.use(
  cors({
    origin: process.env.CORS_ORIGIN,
    credentials: true,
  })
);

//THis is configuration for json data
app.use(express.json({ limit: "16kb" }));
//THis is configuration for url data
app.use(express.urlencoded({ extended: true, limit: "16kb" }));
//THis is configuration for public data files
app.use(express.static("public"));
//This is configuration for url data
app.use(cookieParser());
```

### 27. Now create asyncHandler fun under utils folder 📂 to handle request response next

```javascript
const asyncHandler = (requestHandler) => {
  (req, res, next) => {
    Promise.resolve(requestHandler(req, res, next)).catch((err) => next(err));
  };
};

export { asyncHandler };
```

### 28. Handle API error under utils folder 📂

### 29. Instal npm i mongoose-aggregate-paginate-v2 to handle aggregation pipeline

This pkg gives us power to install plugin in our mongoose

### 30. Install Bcrypt => to hash password

1. Bcrypt => core bcrypt => we install this
2. Bcrypt js

### 31. Install JWT => Json web token

To create token use this
[JWT token generator](https://emn178.github.io/online-tools/sha256.html)

### 32. Use cloudinary for handling files

### 33. Use fs

1. unlink => to delete file from server

## 34. Use multer to create middlewares

[Multer documents](https://github.com/expressjs/multer)

============================================================================

## 1. node version check

```cmd
node -v
```

### 2. npm version check

```cmd
npm -v
```

### 3. Create package.json

```cmd
npm init
```

### 4. Initialize git repo

```cmd
init git
```

### 5. Install nodemon

```cmd
npm i -D nodemon
```

### 6. Install prettier

```cmd
npm i -D prettier
```

### 7. Install mongoose for database connection

```cmd
npm i mongoose
```

### 8. Install express

```cmd
npm i express
```

### 9. Install dotenv

```cmd
npm i dotenv
```

### 10. Install cookie-parser

```cmd
npm i cookie-parser
```

### 11. Install CORS

```cmd
npm i cors
```

### 12. Install cookie-parser

```cmd
npm i cookie-parser
```

### 13. Install mongoose aggregation

```cmd
npm i mongoose-aggregate-paginate-v2
```

### 14. Install Bcrypt

```cmd
npm i bcrypt
```

### 15. Install JWT

```cmd
npm i jsonwebtoken
```

### 16. Install cloudinary

```cmd
npm i cloudinar
```

### 17. Install multer

```cmd
npm i multer
```

### To check all packages version

Use this command

```cmd
npm list packagename
```

```cmd
npm list mongoose
```

#### Prettier file generator

[.prettierrc file generator](https://michelelarson.com/prettier-config/)
[Visually prettier file generator](https://prettier.io/playground/)

```json
{
  "singleQuote": false,
  "bracketSpacing": true,
  "tabWidth": 2,
  "semi": true,
  "trailingComma": "es5"
}
```

In javascript, markdown, html, css, jsx files use default comment and then state prettier-ignore for keeping prettier away from formating. Such as-

```comment
//prettier-ignore
```

#### .prettierignore file

```json
*.env
.env
.env*

/.vscode
/node_modules
./dist
```

#### .gitignore file generator

[Visually .gitignore file generator](https://mrkandreev.name/snippets/gitignore-generator/)
